What is Node.js?
Node.js is not framework or language. Node.js is runtime environment for executing javascript code on the server side.

How node is a runtime environment on server side? What is V8?
Browsers execute JavaScript on the client side, and similiarity, Node.js executes JavaScript on the server side.
V8 is a JavaScript engine for the JavaScript language.

What is difference between Runtime environment and Framework?
Runtime Environment primarily focuses on providing the necessary infrastructure for code execution, including services like memory management and I/O operations.
Framework primarily focuses on simplifying the development process by offering a structured set of tools, libraries,
and best practices.

What is difference between Node.js and Express.js?
Node.js is a runtime environment that allows the execution of JavaScript code server-side.
Express.js is a framework built on the top Node.js. It is designed to simplify the process of building web applications and APIs by providing a set of features like simple routing system, middleware support etc., 

What are the 7 main features of Node.js?
1)Single Threaded 2)Asynchronous 3)Event-Driven 4)V8 JavaScript Engine 5)Cross-platform 6)NPM 7)Real-Time capabilities

What is Single threaded programming?
What is synchronous Programming?
In a synchronous program, each task is performed one after the other, and the program waits for each operation to
complete before moving on to the next one. Synchornous programming focuses on the order of execution in a sequential manner, while single-threaded programming focuses on the single thread.

What is Multi-Threaded Programming?
What is asynchronous Programming?
In asynchronous programming, tasks can start,run and parallel, tasks can be executed independently of each other.
Asynchronous operations are  typically non-blocking. In Node.js,asynchronous flow can be achieved by its single-threaded, non-blocking and event-driven architecture. Asynchronous programming enables better concurrency and responsiveness.

What are Events, Event Emitter, Event Queue, Event Loop & Event Driven?
Event: Signals that something has happened in a program.
Event Emitter: Create or emit events.
Event Queue: Events emitted queued(stored) in event queue.
Event Handler(Event Listener): Function that responds to specific events.
Event Loop: The event loop picks up event from the event queue and executes them in the order they were executed.

What are advantages of Node.js?
1) Asynchronous enables handling multiple concurrent request & non blocking execution of thread.
2) Built on the V8 JS engine from Google Chrome, Node.js executes code fast.
3) Event-Driven Architecture - Efficient handling events Great for real time applications like chat applications, gaming applications(using web sockets) where bidirectional communication is required.
4) It supports deployments on various operating systems, enhancing flexibility.
5) Coding in JavaScript language therefore no need to learn a new language.
6) It suitable for building scalable applications that can handle increased loads.

When to use Node.js?
1) Ideal to real-time applications like chat applications, online gaming and collaborative tools due to its event-driven architecture.
2) Excellent for building lightweight and scalable RESTful APIs that handle a large number of concurrent connections.
3) Well-suited for building microservices-based architectures, enabling	modular and scalable systems.

When not to use Node.js(Disadvantage)?
CPU-Intensive Tasks: Avoid for applications that involve heavy CPU processing(Image/Video Processing, Data Encryption/Decryption) as Node.js may not provide optimal performance in such scenarios because it single threaded
and for heavy computation multi-threaded is better.

What is role of package.json file in Node?
Package.json file contains project metadata(Information about the project) for ex: project name, version, description, author, license etc.,

What are Modules in Node? What is difference between a function and module?
A module contains a specific functionality that can be easily reused within a Node.js application.
Ideally in node.js, a javascript file can be treated as a module.
A module is a broader concept that encapsulates functionality, while a function is a specific set of instructions within that module.
Modules can contains multiple functions and variables.

What are top 5 built-in modules in Node.js?
1)fs Module 2)Path Module 3)OS Module 4)events Module 5)http Module

1)fs(File System) Module in Node provides a set of methods for interacting with the file system.
2)Path Module provides utilities for joining, resolving, parsing, formatting, normalizing and mainpulating paths.
3)OS Module in Node.js provides a set of methods for interacting with the operating system.
4)Events Module is also a built-in module which is used to handle the events.
5) http Module can create an HTTP server that listens to server ports and gives a response back to the client.

What are Events Arguments?
Event Arguments refer to the additional information or data that can be passed along with an emitted event.

What is difference between function and event?
A function is a reusable piece of code that performs a specific task when invoked or called.
Event represent actions that can be observed and responded to. Events will call functions internally.

What is role of createServer() method of http module?
The createServer() method of http module in Node.js is used to create an HTTP Server.
