What are Routes and Route?
The <Routes> component is used as the root container for declaring your collection of routes.
The <Route> component is used to define a route and specify the component that should render when the route matches.

What are Route Parameters in React Routing?
Route parameters in React Router are a way to pass dynamic values(data) to the component as part of URL path.
For ex: <Route path="/users/:userId" component={UserProfile}> where userId is the route parameter.

What is role of Switch Component in React Routing?
Switch component ensures that only the first matching <Route> is rendered and rest are ignored.For ex, Switch
is commonly used to handle 404 or "not found" routes.

What is the role of exact prop in React Routing?
exact prop is used with the <Route> component to match exactly to the provided path.

What is Redux? Explain them?
Redux is a predictable state container for Javascript apps.
It is for javascript apps.
It is a state container.
It is predictable.
Redux is not tied to React & It can be used with React,Vue or even vanilla javascript
Redux is a library for javascript applications.
Redux stores the state of your application.
State of an app is the state represented by all the individual components of that app.
Redux will store and manage the application state. 
React-Redux is the official Redux UI binding library for React
Redux is a library for managing state in a predictable way in Javascript applications.
React-Redux is a library that provides bindings to use React and Redux together in an application.

Redux has Three core concepts such as 
1)store 2)action 3)reducer
1)store - A store that holds the state of your application.
2)action - An action that describes the changes in the state of the application.
3)reducer - A reducer which actually carries out the state transtition depending on the action.

Redux has three principles such as
First Principle:
"The state of your whole application is stored in an object tree within a single store"
Maintain our application state in a single object which would be managed by the Redux store.
Second Principle:
"The only way to change the state  is to emit an action, an object describing what happened"
To update the state of your app, you need to let Redux know about that with an action.Not allowed to 
directly update the state object.
Third Principle:
"To specify how the state tree is transformed by actions, you write pure reducers"
Reducer(previousState,action)=>newState 
