What is REST API?
REST(REpresentational State Transfer) is an architectural style for designing networked applications(REST is a set of guidelines for creating APIs).
RESTful API is a service which follow REST principles/guidelines.
REST API uses HTTP or HTTPS Protocols.
REST API uses lightweights formats like JSON,XML
REST API is generally lightweight, faster and stateless
REST API relies on HTTP status codes like 200,201,404

What is API Call?
The API Call is the process of sending a request to your API after setting up the right endpoints. For ex: By entering your login and password into a website and hitting 'enter', you made an API Call.

What is API Endpoint?
An endpoint is the end of a communication channel. When APIs interact with other systems, each touchpoint of interaction is considered an endpoint.

What is API Keys?
An API Key is a unique identifier that enables other software to authenticate a user, developer, or API calling software to an API to ensure that this person or software is who it says it is.

What is API Integration?
In simple terms, API integration connects two or more applications to exchange data between them and connect to the outside world.

What is API Gateway?
An API Gateway is an API management tool that serves as an intermediary between the client and a set of different backend services.

What is HTTP Request and Response structures in UI and REST API?
HTTP(Hypertext Transfer Protocol) Request is a message sent by a client(such as a web browser or a mobile app) to a server, requesting a particular action or resource. It contains HTTP Action(GET,POST...), URL, Request Body, Request Header.
HTTP(Hypertext Transfer Protocol) Response is a message sent by a server back to the client in response to an HTTP request. It includes status code, content type, content.

What are TOP 5 REST Guidelines?
1)Separation of Client and Server - The implementation of the client and the server must be done independently. 
2)Stateless Server - The server will not store anything about the latest HTTP request the client made.
3)Uniform Interface - Identify the resources by URL.
4)Cacheable - The API response should be cacheable to improve the performance
5)Layered System - The system should follow layered pattern

What are HTTP verbs and HTTP methods?
1)HTTP methods also known as HTTP Verbs.
2)HTTP methods(Verbs) are a set of action that a client can take on a resource.

What are GET,POST,PUT,DELETE HTTP Methods?
GET - It will retrieve data from a specified resource.
POST - Submit data to be processed.
PUT - Update a resource.
DELETE - Removal request to remove a data/resource

What is Difference between PUT & PATCH methods?
Both PUT and PATCH method are used to update a resource by replacing the resource with the new data provided in the request.

But,
In a PUT request, the client sends the full updated resource in the request body, replacing the existing resource on the server.
For Ex:
// PUT URL: www.example.com/users/123
// PUT request body
{
"id":123,
"name":"John Doe Updated",
"email:"john@example.com",
"age":26
}
In a PATCH request, the client sends specific changes or instructions for modifying the resource, updating only certain fields without resending the entire resource.
For Ex:
// PATCH URL: www.example.com/users/123
// PATCH request body
{
"name":"John Doe Updated",
"age":26
}


Explain the concept of Idempotence in RESTful APIs?
1)Idempotence meaning performing an operation multiple times should have the same outcome as performing it once.
For Ex: Sending multiple identical GET requests will always return the same response.
2)Idempotent methods are GET, PUT, DELETE.
3)Non-Idempotent methods are POST.

What are the role of Status Codes in RESTful APIs?
Status Codes are used to convey the result's of a client's request.

1XX(Info) - 100: continue
2XX(Success) - 200: OK
	       201: Created
	       202: Accepted
	       204: No Content
3XX(Redirection) - 300: Multiple Choices
4XX(Client Error) - 400: Bad Request
		    401: unauthorized
		    403: Forbidden
		    404: Not Found
5XX(Server Error) - 500: Internal Server Error
		    501: Not Implemented
		    502: Bad Gateway
		    503: Service Unavailable

What is CORS in RESTful APIs?
CORS(Cross-Origin Resource Sharing) is a security feature implemented in web browsers that restricts web pages or scripts from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page.

How to remove CORS restrictions in RESTful APIs?
CORS restriction can be removed by enabling CORS middleware in application.

What are Serialization & Deserialization?
Serialization is the process of converting an object into a format that can be stored, transmitted or reconstructed later.
For Ex: Serialization: Object -> JSON
Deserialization is the process of converting serialized data, such as binary/XML/JSON data, back into an object.
For Ex: Deserialization: JSON -> Object

What are types of Serialization?
Types of Serialization - 1)Binary Serialization, 2)XML Serialization, 3)JSON Serialization

Explain the concept of versioning in RESTful APIs?
Versioning in RESTful APIs refers to the practice of maintaining multiple versions of an API to support backward compatibility.

What is backward-compatible?
            - Backward compatibility (or backward-compatible) refers to the ability of a system, software, or 
              component to interact with and support older versions of itself or other systems without causing 
              issues or requiring changes to the existing infrastructure. In other words, backward-compatible 
              changes ensure that new versions of a software application or API do not break or disrupt 
              the functionality of older versions.
            - Backward compatibility ensures that newer versions of software can coexist with older versions 
              without causing disruptions. This is crucial for maintaining a stable and reliable environment, 
              especially in scenarios where multiple versions of software components interact with each other.

What is API Document? What are the popular document formats?
An API document describe the functionality, features and usage of a REST API.
1)Swagger(OpenAPI) 2)RAML 3)API Blueprint are some of REST API Documentation formats.

What is typical structure of a REST API project in "Node"?
node_modules: Directory where npm packages are installed.
src: Source code Directory which contains below things
     controllers: Contains files responsible for handling business logic
     Models: Defines data models.
     routes: Defines API routes.
     utils: Contains reusable functions used across the project.
     app.js: Initializes and configures the Express application. Connects routes, middleware and other 			     configurations.
gitignore: A file that specifies file and directories to be ignored by version control(e.g.,node_modules, *.log).
package.json: The file that contains metadata about the project and its dependencies.

What is Authentication and Authorization?
Authentication is the process of verifying the identity of a user by validating their credentials such as username and password.
Authorization is the process of allowing an authenticated user access to resources. Authentication is always precedes to Authorization.

What is types of Authentication in Node.js?
1)Basic(Username and Password) Authentication 
2)API Key Authentication
3)Token-based Authentication
4)Multi-factor Authentication
5)Certificate-based Authentication

What is Basic Authentication?
In Basic Authentication, the user passes their credentials on a post request. At the Node REST API end, credentials are verified and response is sent back.
Disadvantage is, It will sends credentials in plain text over the network, so it's not considered a secure method of authentication.

What is API Key Authentication?
API Key Authentication - In API Key Authentication, the API owner will share an API key with the users and this key will authenticate the users of that API.
The Disadvantages of it's API keys can be shared or stolen therefore it may not be suitable for all scenarios.

